# IDAPython_Scripts
Either general IDAPython scripts I made to aid me in everyday reversing or IDAPython scripts I made targeting a specific executable (e.g. deobfuscate a specific routine that is unlikely to appear in other executables). All IDAPython scripts I made from now on will be placed here. 

### ARMdetect ###
A script to identify all sections in a ARM binary that is setting up (writing to) a pin, reading a pin (using the pin as input pin), or interfacing with other devices on the board using I2C. For full documentation, check out this repo: https://github.com/yellowbyte/Reverse_Engineering_Embedded_Devices.

### CCCheck ###
The 0xCC byte is the byte representing int 3, or software breakpoint. When you make a software breakpoint on an instruction, the debugger replaces the first byte of the instruction to 0xCC. When the CPU hits the int 3 instruction, the OS will signal SIGTRAP to the debugged program. But since the program is being debugged, the debugger will catch it instead, effectively halting the execution temporatory. The 0xCC byte can also be added to the program itself by the original software developers to thwart off people trying to reverse engineer their program since running the program under a debugger will stop it at random 0xCC instructions. This script checks the .text section for the 0xCC bytes and prints the addresses of where the 0xCC bytes are located if they exist. Being able to quickly identify where all the manually added 0xCC bytes are makes the initial dynamic analysis process smoother. 

### Deobfuscate ###
Deobfuscates a portion of the code and data for a crackme by Tosh. This script will directly patch the bytes in IDA so IDA will show the correct deobfuscated listing rather than writing the deobfuscated listing to a separate file. This enhances static analysis and makes solving this crackme challenge a lot faster. Full write-up of this particular crackme can be viewed on my blog (http://yellowbyte.blogspot.com/2017/01/elf-anti-debug-root-me-cracking.html).

### FindMain ###
In a stripped ELF executable, IDA will not be able to identify main. The name of the main function will be indistinguishable from the other local functions, in the form sub_"address of where it is located." This script will automatically find and rename main as "main" and then move cursor position in IDA's disassembly listing to beginning of main. This script currently only works for GNU Compiler Collection (GCC) compiled ELF executables.

### intCheck ###
Interrupts are either generated by external sources, such as I/O devices, or by processor-detected exceptions in the running code. Although interrupts can be represented in assembly in the form: int 'interrupt number', they should not appear in the executable section of a binary. Detection of it in the executable section could mean that it is being used as a debugging deterrent, with the exception of int 0x80, which is used to make syscall. For example, int 0x2c raises a debug assertion exception but if the binary is running under WinDbg, WinDbg will consume this exception. Check can then be made to see if the corresponding exception handler is called. If it's not called, then the binary must be under the influence of a debugger. One thing to note is that this script will not catch single byte Int 0x3 (representing software breakpoint) since its representation in hex is just the 0xCC byte. To detect the single byte Interrupt 0x3, use my CCCheck script.

### JccFlip ###
Change a jcc instruction to its opposite representation. For example, JA to JB. This is helpful when one is patching a binary to bypass the binary's authorization routine. 

### LocFuncAnalyzer ###
In a stripped ELF binary, local functions are deprived of its original name. This is why local functions are not usually the starting point when doing analysis since without its original name, all local functions look exactly the same as one another. This script aims to change that. For each local function, it prints out the numbers of code references, data references, and arguments. You might be wondering how those information may be helpful. Well, a large number of code references is suspicious. For example, in a binary where readable texts are obfuscated, the text de-obfuscator function will have a large number of code references. The numbers of data references is also helpful to know since having any number of data references can mean that the function is being called indirectly, which is suspicious. Knowing the numbers of arguments for a local function can also be helpful. For example, if you are solving a crackme and there is a local function that takes two arguments, that function could be the authentication function that checks your input against the correct input. Being able to identify the authentication function quickly makes it easier to solve the crackme. 

### MalCheck ###
Checks an executable for usage of API that has a high chance of being used maliciously or for anti-reversing purposes such as IsDebuggerPresent. It's always a good idea to check for low-hanging fruits before doing any deeper analysis. The "potentially malicious" functions that I came up with are from the book "Practical Malware Analysis."

### NopSled ###
Either convert the instructions that user select/highlight or the instruction that the mouse cursor is on to NOPs. This can be useful to clean up Anti-Reversing techniques that add in dead/useless code to make it harder to analyze the disassembly.  

### RdtscCheck ###
rdtsc instruction puts the number of ticks since the last system reboot in EDX:EAX. There is really no point for a binary to contain this instruction other than for anti-debugging purpose. To use as a debugging deterrent, program will have this instruction at at least two different places in the .text section and then have a compare instruction that compares the time eclipsed between two rdtsc instructions. If a breakpoint is placed anywhere between two rdtsc instructions, then the time eclipsed between the two instructions will be significantly higher, signaling that it is running under a debugger. This script checks the .text section for the rdtsc instructions and print out their addresses if they exist. 

### zeroSection ###
NOTE: this is not a IDAPython script. It's a python script that runs in the terminal. It zeros out information about section headers from the ELF Header. Simply zero-ing out that information from the ELF Header renders many reversing tools (readelf, radare, objdump) unable to display information regarding a binary's sections, even if the section headers still exist. Experience reverser can still manually identify section header table without relying on the ELF Header, so the best way to hid information on sections is to zero out the section headers instead. This will not affect program execution since only program headers are required for execution.    

### zeroSection2 ###
NOTE: like zeroSection, this is not a IDAPython script. It is an updated version of zeroSection. It not only zeros out section headers information from the ELF Header, it also zero out the whole section headers table. Even though simply zero-ing out section headers information from ELF Header will already renders many reversing tools unable to identify sections, experienced reverser will still be able to manually identify where the section headers table is located. This script will make it impossible to identify sections.
